hi I'm T Cooper I'm a New York City
makeup artist hairstylist and co-founder
of beauty and grooming company Metro
look today we're gonna talk about how to
trim shoulder length hair my lovely
model here she has shoulder-length hair
and to trim shoulder length hair you can
do it either wet or dry lots of artists
they say dries better and some say
what's better it's up to what you're
more comfortable with but the only big
difference that I notice with cutting
dry is it's kind of instant
gratification because once it's wet and
then it dries it usually comes up a
couple inches so like when it's wet it
might be here and then when you dry it
might be like about an inch shorter so I
like dry just for the fact that you know
what you're getting but either way it's
fences they've been cutting hair wet for
years so it's fine so it's a cut hair or
to trim hair actually I would recommend
using a hair cutting comb like this one
and a pair of shoes you can use whatever
kind of shoes you have as long as
they're designed for haircutting so what
you would do is you would section out
whatever hair you want to trim and you'd
comb through it with this comb and what
this does is it kind of like detangles
the hair and creates tension and pulls
everything down so that you're gonna get
a nice smooth piece of hair to cut and
once you smooth it down you could do a
couple of things some people use this as
the guide some people say ok you know
what they'll bring it here and then
they'll cut right underneath where this
is that if you say ok I want to trim off
this much they'll use the comb so that
they get a nice even line you don't have
to do that but you can if you want to
but my recommendation would be if you
just want to trim off a little bit you
trim it off in a straight line and then
you go back in and you point cut it if
you don't want to point cut the hair
it's gonna be a little bit more bulky at
the ends and sometimes people with
thinner hair they don't want to point
cut or thin it out because they want it
to look like they have more hair but if
you have curly hair or if you have a lot
of hair it's just going to be really
really bulky if you don't break it up
with a little bit of point cutting on
your trim and if you're not just trying
to just trim off the dead ends and you
want to take off a couple of inches you
would section out
the hair use your hair cutting comb comb
through it and decide where it is that
she wants your shortest length of hair
to fall so like say you wanted to cut it
up to like right here
you'd bring the comb up to there then
you'd pretty much cut it straight across
and again this gives you a nice straight
line and then you can go back in and
either point cut it or leave it blunt if
that's the way you like it
I'm tee Cooper and thank you so much for
watching bye